README.md, before:


#Miles Deep - AI Porn Video Editor

Using a deep convolutional neural network with residual connections, Miles Deep quickly classifies each second of a pornographic video into 6 categories based on sexual act with 95% accuracy. Then it uses that classification to automatically edit the video. It can remove all the scenes not containing sexual contact, or edit out just a specific act.

Unlike Yahoo's recently released [NSFW model](https://github.com/yahoo/open_nsfw),  which uses a similar architecture, Miles Deep can tell the difference between nudity and various explicit sexual acts. As far as I know this is the first and only public pornography classification or editing tool.

This program can also be viewed as a general framework for classifying video with a [Caffe](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/) model, using batching and threading in C++. By replacing the weights, model definition, and mean file it can immediately be used to edit videos with other classes without recompiling. See below for an example.

##Installation

###Ubuntu Installation (16.04)

####Dependencies

`sudo apt install ffmpeg libopenblas-base libhdf5-serial-dev` 

#####Additional 14.04 Dependencies

`sudo apt install libgflags-dev libgoogle-glog-dev`

#####CUDA (Recommended)
For GPU usage you need CUDA 8.0. Highly recommended. Increases speed 10x. This can be installed from a package or by downloading from [NVIDIA directly](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads). 

#####CuDNN (Optional)

Additional drivers from NVIDIA that make the CUDA GPU support even faster.
[Download here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn). (Requires registration)


####Additional 14.04 dependencies

`sudo apt-get install libgflags-dev libgoogle-glog-dev`

####Download Miles Deep

TODO: Download links here (3 versions)
TODO: maybe speed table xxx, gpu, cpu


Version | Runtime
:---:|---:
GPU + CuDNN | 15s  
GPU | 19s
CPU  | 1m 59s 
*on a 24.5 minute video with a GTX 960 4GB
###Windows and OSX
I'm working on a version for Windows (sorry I don't have a Mac). The code is available if you want to attempt to port it yourself.

##Usage

Example:
```miles-deep -t sex_back,sex_front movie.mp4``` 

This finds the scenes sex from the back or front and outputs the result
in `movie.cut.avi`

Example:
`miles-deep -x movie.avi`

This edits out all the non-sexual scenes from 'movie.avi'
and outputs the result in `movie.cut.avi`.

Example:

`miles-deep -c -b 16 -t cunnilingus -o /cut_movies movie.mkv`

This reduces the batch size to 16 (default 32). 
Finds only scenes with cunnilingus,
outputs result in `/cut_movies/movie.cut.mkv`


####GPU VRAM used and runtime for various batch sizes:

VRAM(GB)  |  batch\_size  |    run time
---:       | ---:           | ---:
3.5       |       32       |          14.9s
1.9       |   16           |          15.7s 
1.2            | 8  |            16.9s
0.8            | 4   |           19.5s
0.6            | 2   |           24.3s
0.1           |  1   |           36.2s

Tested on an Nvidia GTX 960 with 4GB VRAM and a 24.5 minute video file. At batch\_size 32 it took approximately 0.6 seconds to process 1 minute of input video or about 36 seconds per hour.

In addition to batching, Miles Deep also uses threading, which allows the screenshots to be captured and processed while they are classified.

###Prediction Weights
Here is an example of the predictions for each second of a video:

![predictions for each second of a video](images/prediction_weights.png?raw=true)


###Using Miles Deep with your own Caffe model
####Cat finding

Here's an example of how to use the program with your own model (or a pre-trained one):

`MODEL_PATH=/models/bvlc_reference_caffenet/ `

```miles-deep -t n02123045 \
        -p ${CAFFE_ROOT}/${MODEL_PATH}/deploy.prototxt \
        -m ${CAFFE_ROOT}/data/ilsvrc12/imagenet_mean.binaryproto \
        -w ${CAFFE_ROOT}/${MODEL_PATH}/bvlc_reference_caffenet.caffemodel \
        -l ${CAFFE_ROOT}/data/ilsvrc12/synsets.txt \
        movie.mp4```

This finds the scenes in `movie.mp4` with a tabby cat and returns ```movie.cut.mp4``` with only those parts. n02123045 is the category for tabby cats. You can find the category names in `${CAFFE_ROOT}data/ilsvrc12/synset_words.txt`. `${CAFFE_ROOT}` is directory where Caffe is installed. You can use a pre-trained model from the [model zoo](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/wiki/Model-Zoo) instead.

*Note: This example is just to show the syntax. It performs somewhat poorly in my experience, likely due to the 1000 classes. This program is ideally suited to models with a smaller number of categories with an 'other' category too. *


##Model

The model is a CNN with [residual connections](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385) created by [pynetbuilder](https://github.com/jay-mahadeokar/pynetbuilder/tree/master/models/imagenet). These models are pre-trained on ImageNet. Then the final layer is changed to fit the new number of classes and [fine-tuned](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/gathered/examples/finetune_flickr_style.html).

As [Karpathy et al](http://cs.stanford.edu/people/karpathy/deepvideo/) suggest, I train the weights for the top-3 layers not just the top-layer, which improves the accuracy slightly:

RetunedLayers  |  Accuracy
---|---
Top3 |            94.6
Top1         |    93.9


Below are the results for fine-tuning the top3 layers with different models,
tested on 2500 training images, taken from different videos than the training set.

Model |   Accuracy(%)   |  Flops(millions) | Params(millions) 
--- | ---: | ---: | ---:
resnet50      |   80.0     |   3858 |    25.5
resnet50\_1by2  | 94.6  |      1070  |   6.9
resnet77\_1by2  | 95.7  |      1561  |   9.4 

The training loss and test accuracy:
![fine-tuning training loss](images/train_loss.png?raw=true) ![test accuracy vs step](images/accuracy.png?raw=true)

Of all the models tested, the resnet50\_1by2 provides the best balance between
runtime, memory, and accuracy. I believe the full resnet50's low accuracy is due 
to overfitting because it has more parameters, or perhaps the training could
be done differently.

The results above were obtained with mirroring but not cropping. Using cropping slightly improves the results on the resnet50\_1by2 to **95.2%**, therefore it is used as the final model.

[Fine-tuning](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/how_tos/image_retraining/index.html) the Inception V3 model with Tensorflow also only achieved 80% accuracy. However, that is with a 299x299 image size instead of 224x224 with no mirroring, so the result is not directly comparable. Overfitting may be a problem with this model too.

###Editing the Movie

Given the predictions for a frame each second, it takes the argmax of those predictions and creates cut blocks of the movie where argmax equals the target and the score is greater than some threshold. The gap size, the minimum fraction of frames matching the target in each block, and the score threshold are all adjustable.

FFmpeg supports a lot of codes including: mp4, avi, flv, mkv, wmv, and many more.

*Note: WMVs would stall at the beginning of each piece when cut without recoding, so Miles Deep re-encodes them automatically to MKV. If you know a better solution to this please let me know.


###Single Frame vs Multiple Frames

This model doesn't make use of any temporal information since it treats each image separately. *Karpathy et al* showed that other models which use multiple frames don't perform much better. They have difficulty dealing with camera movement. It would still be interesting to compare their slow fusion model with the results here.

##Data

The training database consists of 36,000 (and 2500 test images) images divided into 6 categories: 

0. blowjob\_handjob
1. cunnilingus
2. other
3. sex\_back
4. sex\_front
6. titfuck

The images are resized to 256x256 with horizontal mirroring and random cropping
to 224x224 for data augmentation. A lot of the experiments were done without cropping but it slightly improves the results for the resnet50\_1by2.

For now the dataset is limited to two heterosexual performers. But given the success of this method, I plan to expand the number of categories. Due to the nature of the material, I will not be releasing the database itself; only the trained model.

####Sex back and front

Sex front and back are defined by the position of the camera, instead of the orientation of the performers. If the female's body is facing the camera so the front of the vagina is shown, it's sex front. If the female's rear is shown instead, it's sex back. This creates two visually distinct classes. No distinction is made between vaginal and anal intercourse; sex back or sex front could include either.

##Compiling

1. Clone the git repository which includes Caffe as an external dependency. 

2. Follow the [instructions](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/installation.html) to install the dependencies for Caffe. Don't worry about editing the Makefile.config or making Caffe. 

3. The default is GPU without CuDNN. If you want something else edit `Makefile` and `Makefile.caffe`. Comment out or uncomment the proper lines in both files.

4. `make` Miles-Deep

#####License
Code licensed under GPLv3, including the trained model. Caffe is licensed under BSD 2. 

####Contact

If you have any thoughts or questions please open an issue or contact me at nipplerdeeplearning@gmail.com

Commit message:

updated README with cuda install info for ubuntu 16.10

README.md, after:


#Miles Deep - AI Porn Video Editor

Using a deep convolutional neural network with residual connections, Miles Deep quickly classifies each second of a pornographic video into 6 categories based on sexual act with 95% accuracy. Then it uses that classification to automatically edit the video. It can remove all the scenes not containing sexual contact, or edit out just a specific act.

Unlike Yahoo's recently released [NSFW model](https://github.com/yahoo/open_nsfw),  which uses a similar architecture, Miles Deep can tell the difference between nudity and various explicit sexual acts. As far as I know this is the first and only public pornography classification or editing tool.

This program can also be viewed as a general framework for classifying video with a [Caffe](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/) model, using batching and threading in C++. By replacing the weights, model definition, and mean file it can immediately be used to edit videos with other classes without recompiling. See below for an example.

##Installation

###Ubuntu Installation (16.04)

####Dependencies

`sudo apt install ffmpeg libopenblas-base libhdf5-serial-dev` 

#####Additional 14.04 Dependencies

`sudo apt install libgflags-dev libgoogle-glog-dev`

#####CUDA (Recommended)
For GPU usage you need CUDA 8.0. Highly recommended. Increases speed 10x. This can be installed from a package or by downloading from [NVIDIA directly](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads). 

```bash
#On Ubuntu 16.10
sudo apt install libcublas-8.0 libcudart-8.0 libcurand-8.0 
```

#####CuDNN (Optional)

Additional drivers from NVIDIA that make the CUDA GPU support even faster.
[Download here](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn). (Requires registration)


####Additional 14.04 dependencies

`sudo apt-get install libgflags-dev libgoogle-glog-dev`

####Download Miles Deep

TODO: Download links here (3 versions)


Version | Runtime
:---:|---:
GPU + CuDNN | 15s  
GPU | 19s
CPU  | 1m 59s 
*on a 24.5 minute video with a GTX 960 4GB
###Windows and OSX
I'm working on a version for Windows (sorry I don't have a Mac). The code is available if you want to attempt to port it yourself.

##Usage

Example:
`miles-deep -t sex_back,sex_front movie.mp4` 

This finds the scenes sex from the back or front and outputs the result
in `movie.cut.avi`

Example:
`miles-deep -x movie.avi`

This edits out all the non-sexual scenes from 'movie.avi'
and outputs the result in `movie.cut.avi`.

Example:

`miles-deep -c -b 16 -t cunnilingus -o /cut_movies movie.mkv`

This reduces the batch size to 16 (default 32). 
Finds only scenes with cunnilingus,
outputs result in `/cut_movies/movie.cut.mkv`


####GPU VRAM used and runtime for various batch sizes:

VRAM(GB)  |  batch\_size  |    run time
---:       | ---:           | ---:
3.5       |       32       |          14.9s
1.9       |   16           |          15.7s 
1.2            | 8  |            16.9s
0.8            | 4   |           19.5s
0.6            | 2   |           24.3s
0.1           |  1   |           36.2s

Tested on an Nvidia GTX 960 with 4GB VRAM and a 24.5 minute video file. At batch\_size 32 it took approximately 0.6 seconds to process 1 minute of input video or about 36 seconds per hour.

In addition to batching, Miles Deep also uses threading, which allows the screenshots to be captured and processed while they are classified.

###Prediction Weights
Here is an example of the predictions for each second of a video:

![predictions for each second of a video](images/prediction_weights.png?raw=true)


###Using Miles Deep with your own Caffe model
####Cat finding

Here's an example of how to use the program with your own model (or a pre-trained one):

`MODEL_PATH=/models/bvlc_reference_caffenet/ `

```bash
miles-deep -t n02123045 \
  -p ${CAFFE_ROOT}/${MODEL_PATH}/deploy.prototxt \
  -m ${CAFFE_ROOT}/data/ilsvrc12/imagenet_mean.binaryproto \
  -w ${CAFFE_ROOT}/${MODEL_PATH/bvlc_reference_caffenet.caffemodel \
  -l ${CAFFE_ROOT}/data/ilsvrc12/synsets.txt \
  movie.mp4
```
This finds the scenes in `movie.mp4` with a tabby cat and returns `movie.cut.mp4` with only those parts. n02123045 is the category for tabby cats. You can find the category names in `${CAFFE_ROOT}data/ilsvrc12/synset_words.txt`. `${CAFFE_ROOT}` is directory where Caffe is installed. You can use a pre-trained model from the [model zoo](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/wiki/Model-Zoo) instead.

*Note: This example is just to show the syntax. It performs somewhat poorly in my experience, likely due to the 1000 classes. This program is ideally suited to models with a smaller number of categories with an 'other' category too. *


##Model

The model is a CNN with [residual connections](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385) created by [pynetbuilder](https://github.com/jay-mahadeokar/pynetbuilder/tree/master/models/imagenet). These models are pre-trained on ImageNet. Then the final layer is changed to fit the new number of classes and [fine-tuned](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/gathered/examples/finetune_flickr_style.html).

As [Karpathy et al](http://cs.stanford.edu/people/karpathy/deepvideo/) suggest, I train the weights for the top-3 layers not just the top-layer, which improves the accuracy slightly:

RetunedLayers  |  Accuracy
---|---
Top3 |            94.6
Top1         |    93.9


Below are the results for fine-tuning the top3 layers with different models,
tested on 2500 training images, taken from different videos than the training set.

Model |   Accuracy(%)   |  Flops(millions) | Params(millions) 
--- | ---: | ---: | ---:
resnet50      |   80.0     |   3858 |    25.5
resnet50\_1by2  | 94.6  |      1070  |   6.9
resnet77\_1by2  | 95.7  |      1561  |   9.4 

The training loss and test accuracy:
![fine-tuning training loss](images/train_loss.png?raw=true) ![test accuracy vs step](images/accuracy.png?raw=true)

Of all the models tested, the resnet50\_1by2 provides the best balance between
runtime, memory, and accuracy. I believe the full resnet50's low accuracy is due 
to overfitting because it has more parameters, or perhaps the training could
be done differently.

The results above were obtained with mirroring but not cropping. Using cropping slightly improves the results on the resnet50\_1by2 to **95.2%**, therefore it is used as the final model.

[Fine-tuning](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/how_tos/image_retraining/index.html) the Inception V3 model with Tensorflow also only achieved 80% accuracy. However, that is with a 299x299 image size instead of 224x224 with no mirroring, so the result is not directly comparable. Overfitting may be a problem with this model too.

###Editing the Movie

Given the predictions for a frame each second, it takes the argmax of those predictions and creates cut blocks of the movie where argmax equals the target and the score is greater than some threshold. The gap size, the minimum fraction of frames matching the target in each block, and the score threshold are all adjustable.

FFmpeg supports a lot of codes including: mp4, avi, flv, mkv, wmv, and many more.

*Note: WMVs would stall at the beginning of each piece when cut without recoding, so Miles Deep re-encodes them automatically to MKV. If you know a better solution to this please let me know.


###Single Frame vs Multiple Frames

This model doesn't make use of any temporal information since it treats each image separately. *Karpathy et al* showed that other models which use multiple frames don't perform much better. They have difficulty dealing with camera movement. It would still be interesting to compare their slow fusion model with the results here.

##Data

The training database consists of 36,000 (and 2500 test images) images divided into 6 categories: 

0. blowjob\_handjob
1. cunnilingus
2. other
3. sex\_back
4. sex\_front
6. titfuck

The images are resized to 256x256 with horizontal mirroring and random cropping
to 224x224 for data augmentation. A lot of the experiments were done without cropping but it slightly improves the results for the resnet50\_1by2.

For now the dataset is limited to two heterosexual performers. But given the success of this method, I plan to expand the number of categories. Due to the nature of the material, I will not be releasing the database itself; only the trained model.

####Sex back and front

Sex front and back are defined by the position of the camera, instead of the orientation of the performers. If the female's body is facing the camera so the front of the vagina is shown, it's sex front. If the female's rear is shown instead, it's sex back. This creates two visually distinct classes. No distinction is made between vaginal and anal intercourse; sex back or sex front could include either.

##Compiling

1. Clone the git repository which includes Caffe as an external dependency. 

2. Follow the [instructions](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/installation.html) to install the dependencies for Caffe. Don't worry about editing the Makefile.config or making Caffe. 

3. The default is GPU without CuDNN. If you want something else edit `Makefile` and `Makefile.caffe`. Comment out or uncomment the proper lines in both files.

4. `make` Miles-Deep

#####License
Code licensed under GPLv3, including the trained model. Caffe is licensed under BSD 2. 

####Contact

If you have problems, suggestions, or thoughts open an issue or send me email nipplerdeeplearning at gmail.
